# Introduction [](id=introduction)

How many times have you had to start over from scratch? Probably almost as many
times as you've started a new project, because each time you have to write not
only the code to build the project, but also the underlying code that supports
the project. It's never a good feeling to have to write the same kind of code
over and over again. But each new project that you do after a while can feel
like that: you're writing a new set of database tables, a new API, a new set of
CSS classes and HTML, a new set of JavaScript functions. 

Wouldn't it be great if there were a platform that provided a baseline set of
features that gave you a head start on all that repetitive code? Something that
lets you get right to the features of your app or site, rather than making you
start over every time with the basic building blocks? There is such a thing, and
it's called @product@. 

@product@ offers developers a complete platform for building web apps, mobile
apps, and web services quickly, using features and frameworks designed for rapid
development and ease of use. The base platform is already there, and it's built
as a robust container for applications that you can put together in far less
time than you would from scratch. 

It also ships with a default set of common applications you can make use of
right away: web experience management, collaboration applications such as forums
and wikis, documents and media, blogs, and more. All of these applications are
designed to be customized, as is the system itself. If the design of your site
includes applications like these, through a mechanism called Application Display
Templates, you can make it look as though you designed them yourself. You can
also extend them to include your own functionality, and this is no hack: because
of Liferay's modular design, customization *is* by design. 

In short, Liferay was written by developers for developers, to help you get your
work done faster and more easily, to take the drudgery out of web and mobile app
development, so that writing code becomes enjoyable again. 


