discover/portal/articles/03-collaboration/00-collaboration-intro.markdown, before:

# Collaboration [](id=collaboration)

What comes to mind when you think of *collaboration*? 

George Lucas, Steven Spielberg, and John Williams collaborated to give us the
thrilling adventure story, fantastic stunt sequences, and adrenaline pumping
score in the Indiana Jones films. 

The United States, Russia, and other nations combined efforts to launch and
maintain the International Space Station to conduct biological and physical
research that may allow us to explore Mars, Pluto, and beyond. 

Bono, Bill Gates, and others join forces annually at the World Economic Forum
to take on world issues such as poverty and AIDS. 

Now, you might not be a celebrity or a renowned scientist, but you have
important things to accomplish. And no matter whether you're saving lives,
exploring the universe, or entertaining the masses, you're typically much more
effective doing it with others. As you work together, your collective ability to
brainstorm ideas, produce something unique, and present it to the outside world
are key components to successful collaboration. 

Liferay's collaboration suite resonates with apps and features that foster
excellent communication.  Its [Message
Boards](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/creating-forums-with-message-boards)
app gives your team a platform for discussions, questions and answers, and
comments. [Blogs](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/publishing-blogs)
publish your ideas using rich content, so readers can understand them clearly
and respond to them. Collaboration is enhanced in all these applications through
[*mentioning*](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/mentioning-users) other
users--tagging them by name to get their attention or give them kudos. 

As you produce digital assets--documents, videos, audio--you can store and share
them using the suite's [Documents and Media
Library](https://dev.liferay.com/participate/liferaypedia/-/wiki/Main/Documents+and+Media).
It both provides its own repository and connects to external CMIS repositories and [Google Docs](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/publishing-files#accessing-google-docs). 

Finally, you can collaborate on and publish content in a number of different
ways.  You and your colleagues can build a wealth of information using
[Wikis](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/working-together-with-the-wiki)
and create hierarchies of official documentation in a [Knowledge Base](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/informing-users-with-the-knowledge-base).

These are just some of the ways the Collaboration Suite helps you communicate,
produce, and present. In short, it empowers you to labor together with others in
doing amazing things!

Commit message:

LRDOCS-1818 added marketplace labs app note

discover/portal/articles/03-collaboration/00-collaboration-intro.markdown, after:

# Collaboration [](id=collaboration)

What comes to mind when you think of *collaboration*? 

George Lucas, Steven Spielberg, and John Williams collaborated to give us the
thrilling adventure story, fantastic stunt sequences, and adrenaline pumping
score in the Indiana Jones films. 

The United States, Russia, and other nations combined efforts to launch and
maintain the International Space Station to conduct biological and physical
research that may allow us to explore Mars, Pluto, and beyond. 

Bono, Bill Gates, and others join forces annually at the World Economic Forum
to take on world issues such as poverty and AIDS. 

Now, you might not be a celebrity or a renowned scientist, but you have
important things to accomplish. And no matter whether you're saving lives,
exploring the universe, or entertaining the masses, you're typically much more
effective doing it with others. As you work together, your collective ability to
brainstorm ideas, produce something unique, and present it to the outside world
are key components to successful collaboration. 

Liferay's collaboration suite resonates with apps and features that foster
excellent communication.  Its [Message
Boards](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/creating-forums-with-message-boards)
app gives your team a platform for discussions, questions and answers, and
comments. [Blogs](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/publishing-blogs)
publish your ideas using rich content, so readers can understand them clearly
and respond to them. Collaboration is enhanced in all these applications through
[*mentioning*](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/mentioning-users) other
users--tagging them by name to get their attention or give them kudos. 

As you produce digital assets--documents, videos, audio--you can store and share
them using the suite's [Documents and Media Library](https://dev.liferay.com/participate/liferaypedia/-/wiki/Main/Documents+and+Media).
It both provides its own repository and connects to external CMIS repositories 
and even [Google Docs](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/publishing-files#accessing-google-docs) 
via the Liferay Google Drive™ Plugin from the [Marketplace](https://web.liferay.com/marketplace). 

Finally, you can collaborate on and publish content in a number of different
ways.  You and your colleagues can build a wealth of information using
[Wikis](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/working-together-with-the-wiki)
and create hierarchies of official documentation in a [Knowledge Base](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/informing-users-with-the-knowledge-base).

These are just some of the ways the Collaboration Suite helps you communicate,
produce, and present. In short, it empowers you to labor together with others in
doing amazing things!
